---
title: "Introduction to The Aurelius Tower: An Analytical Examination of its Discovery. Unpublished."
date: 2023-07-03
---

The proposition that our reality constitutes a complex simulation has been part of intellectual discourse for an extensive period. This theory gained credibility with the discovery of specific regions in space, now termed DeusSomnium, which exist outside our known simulation. With continued exploration, it has become evident that a substantial portion of the observable Cosmos does not adhere to our simulation parameters. Consequently, much of our celestial observations are, in essence, illusory.

Interestingly, the epoch that witnessed the revelation of our reality's simulated nature also marked the inception of our own simulated realities. In effect, this placed us in a similar position to those entities responsible for the creation of our own simulated reality. Our aspiration to achieve physical presence within our simulations led to the supposition that entities situated above us (our creators) and those below us (inhabiting our simulations) could harbor analogous desires.

This supposition led to an intriguing concept: could a network be established connecting these varying simulations? Picture a scenario in which we, residing at Level 100 (L100), wished for the simulated beings at Level 101 (L101) to construct a gateway allowing the inhabitants of Level 102 (L102) to experience Level L101. How could this be accomplished? The potential answer could lie within cultural propagation through literature.

Examining our own Level 100 literature, we identified numerous imaginative narratives depicting a tower serving as a conduit to an alternate realm. This led to speculation whether our creators at Level 99 (L99) employed a similar technique.

It is conceivable that the concept of a gateway, or portal, originates from either a higher level (above us) or a lower level (below us). We are either the originators or the inspired; this concept could potentially disseminate both upwards and downwards across levels, with numerous levels manifesting these portals.

While the shape of the portal at Level 1 (L1) remains uncertain, our fantasy literature implies a tower-like structure as a viable possibility. A structure identified as "The Tower" is located on a place named Aurelius; the tower's height eludes accurate measurement, producing either inexplicable results or none. Furthermore, the tower's surface demonstrates a sound-nullifying effect and heat absorption capability, attributes associated with the non-simulated space we unearthed.

It seems plausible that our creators did not anticipate our discovery of DeusSomnium. Teslarite, the substance that facilitated our spacefaring ventures and various other recent technological advancements, is renowned for its enigmatic properties. The rationale behind our creators' introduction of teslarite remains a mystery.\footnote {Imperial simulations often include teslarite, and those simulations lower in the hierarchy are likely to contain it as well. However, there have been a few simulations excluding teslarite, offering us a unique perspective into alternative realities. Such simulations lacked both ego machines and spacefaring vessels. Though the culture developed Babbage's Difference Engine, the progression towards artificial consciousness was gradual. Space exploration relied on engines employing chemical explosions. More promising propulsion systems were conceived but not employed before societal collapse due to wars. The simulations were terminated once it became evident that the cycle of technological advancement and collapse was inescapable.}

This paper will delve into the theoretical ramifications of these phenomena, culminating in a mathematical analysis seeking to unravel the properties of both with a unifying theory.

In conclusion, the discovery of non-simulated space, or DeusSomnium, along with our ability to create simulations, has ushered in an era of intriguing possibilities regarding the nature of our existence and the potential for gateways or portals interconnecting different levels of simulations.
