---
title: "Glossary of terms used in the 6578rnd1/2 and 6578Srnd simulcra."
date: 2023-07-14
---
**Terms used in the 6578rnd1/2 and 6578Srnd simulacra.**

\- **Aetherspace:** is the unsimulated space that exists between areas
of normal space. These regions allow immense simulated spaces to exist
with little computational cost. Synonymous with Voidspace and Deus
Somnium. The Aetherspace regions can be recognised by the absence of
texture and light which is the reason astronomers refer to these regions
as untextured space.

\- **A sense of self:** is the awareness of a coherent stream of \*me\*
impressions projected in the sphere of awareness (S.O.A.) from the ego
disk and which form the ego. The self-illusion disappears when attention
is directed elsewhere.

\- **Analogical** model: a way of representing a complex system with a
more straightforward system.

\- **Awareness:** a sensitivity to a change in the environment which
causes a behaviour change.

\- **Consciousness:** is ordinary awareness. The term is entirely
synonymous with awareness.

\- **Deus Somnium:** is a Latin phrase meaning either \"God of Dreams\"
or \"God of Sleep\" when translated to English. The phrase was adopted
by the Church of Metaphysical Engineering to describe regions in space
that are unsimulated. \"Dei somnia\" was also once utilised, but it is
no longer commonly used. Synonymous with Voidspace, Aetherspace and
Untextured Space.

\- **Dreams:** are distortions of reality created by the ego disk. They
are the sum of the thoughts we have about ourselves. Ego distortion is
an inevitable consequence of ego machine design. Still, extremes are
common where an individual's perception of reality is too out of
alignment to permit them to function normally. Such individuals are
called delusional. Metaphysical Engineers at this time referred to the
images observed in the S.O.A. during the machine's downtime as
\*dreams\*. The O.H. moves randomly over the ego disk surface,
activating and re-encoding engrams (see \*Sleep\*). The S.O.A.
projections tend toward the random and have been called ego machine
\*dreams\*. Finally, the emissaries referred to simulacra as \*dreams\*
in the late Nineteenth Century.

\- **Ego:** a coherent core of **me** engrams documenting an
individual's journey through time and space from first to last breath.
Synonymous with \*self\*.

\- **Ego-Disk:** a rotating disk, commonly made of teslarite, stores
engrams.

\- **Ego Machine:** an analogical model of the human ego. It is a
machine that creates the illusion of a self. It assembles an ego in the
mental landscape.

\- **Encoding Arm (E.A.):** writes S.O.A. projections onto the ego disk
and searches the disk for matching engrams.

\- **Engram:** a unit of sensory information stored on the ego disk.

\- **Enlightenment:** recalling awareness before ego formation. The
innermost ego disk tracks are the site of engrams made during this
period. Enlightenment is a state of non-focused attention. It is the
things of the world that cause us to focus. For a time, we forget the
ego. Eventually, the things of the world and the S.O.A. projections
claim attention, and we lose the enlightened state.

\- **Feelings:** are a chemical interaction between consciousness and
meat. The Victorian ego machines tried to simulate feelings with colour,
imagery and poetry fragments. Synonymous with mood.

\- **Foetal awareness:** awareness before the ego is often referred to
as proto-awareness or proto-ego awareness. The goal of meditation. Also
known as Enlightenment.

\- **Human consciousness:** is awareness of the external world and an
inner mental landscape containing an ego.

\- **L:** refers to the level of a simulacrum within a hierarchy of
simulacra. Typically, the numerical value is unknown, but L1 represents
Prime Reality, the highest level with no simulacra above it. In
discussions, L100 has come to represent an individual's present level
which is also the level the Emperor and the Church of Metaphysical
Engineering accept. L101 traditionally denotes the simulacra generated
by the Imperial Simulacrum Engines. LB signifies the level at which an
individual was born.

\- **Mappers:** are autonomous mechanisms that create detailed planetary
records and send the information to the Imperial Library. The first
mappers were small intelligent recording devices sent into space in
large quantities. They sailed through interstellar gulfs on light sails
until they located a suitable mapping world. Nowadays, mappers are
assembled on the worlds they are designed to record using printing
mechanisms sent from the Empire long ago. These mappers are
self-sufficient, well-adapted to the environment of the world, and
possess sentience. Many are unaware of their origin or purpose, but they
send recorded data back to the Empire through acts of worship in temples
that are also assembled by the Printers.

\- **Me thoughts:** are thoughts about what things of the world mean to
the ego machine. They were stored only in the inner tracks. In Dorian,
all Me thoughts were stamped with the Yin-Yang symbol. This increased
the similarity between engrams and promoted a strong sense of self.

\- **Meaning:** the ego machine has encountered a situation before---it
has an engram record on the ego disk, close to the freshly encoded
engram from the visual funnel.

\- **Mind:** a catch-all for everything that happens in a human skull.

\- **Ocular Hose/Apparatus (O.H.):** conveys impressions from engrams on
the ego disk surface to the S.O.A. Victorian ego machine implementations
attached the O.H. to the V.F. and the E.A.

\- **Pattern matching:** is used by the ego machine to recall and
organise ego disk engrams.

\- **Personality:** are the typical ways a person interacts with the
world of things.

\- **Printers:** are mechanisms that are sent to other worlds by the
Empire. Their purpose is to gather materials and await printing
instructions. Typically, they construct mapping mechanisms using metals
obtained locally, or more recently, using biological materials.
Advancements in germ-plasm manipulation have enabled Printers to
manipulate the local wildlife in order to carry out tasks such as
mapping, gathering resources, and even building civilisations. It is
important to note that Printers are not sentient, but they operate
autonomously.

\- **Self-awareness:** See A sense of self.

\- **Simulacrum:** something which behaves like something or mimics
something, even though it is made of something else. Approximately
synonymous with Simulation.

\- **Sleep:** a periodic slowing down of the disk when the ego machine
stands by for orders.

\- **Sphere of awareness (S.O.A.):** provides a darkened area for a
stream of ego impressions (foreground) from the ego disk and the V.F. to
be projected on. Also, a microcosm of man in the Cosmos.

\- **Suffering:** caused by early episodes when the loss of a toy was a
catastrophic event. No distinction was made between a toy and the self.
Recalling these early moments of ego diminution causes present
suffering---also the need to reinforce the ego with the things of the
world.

\- **Teslarite:** (an amalgam of fused quartz, semi-precious stones and
gold) is an artificial substance used to make ego disk engrams in
19th-century ego machines. Teslarite lozenges are an amber colour
flecked with brass and gold. It is at the highly negative end of the
tribo-electric series. After initialisation with an electric charge, a
teslarite lozenge can record moving images exposed to monochromatic
light. Subsequent exposure to monochromatic light recalls the entirety
of recorded optical information. Depending on its purity, a tablet can
register a maximum of ten seconds of visual data. The speed with which
it retrieves recorded information is proportional to the monochromatic
light intensity. Teslarite slides with duplicate optical data can act as
polarising filters. In nineteenth-century ego disk implementations, they
used this property to perform rudimentary pattern matching. Later
developments allowed teslarite lozenges to be wiped with an electrical
charge and used again.

\- **Untextured Space:** is the term favoured by astronomers to describe
unsimulated areas of the Cosmos visible by telescope. The simulation
engines at L99 (the level above ours) economise on processing resources
by leaving large swathes of the Cosmos unsimulated. The dark areas are
the computational boundaries of the simulation beyond which is
Voidspace, Aetherspace or Deus Somnium. Current estimates are that 90

\- **Visual funnel (V.F.):** conveys visual and auditory impressions
from the world of things to the ego disk.

\- **Voidspace:** a region of unsimulated space. Synonymous with
Aetherspace, Untextured Space and Deus Somnium.

